The university will advance education and research at the level of a world leader in fields of science and technology with special focus on areas related to information and communication.

In order to build a safe, stable, and rich living environment, the university pursues education and research in cutting-edge fields of science and technology.
The university pursues education and research in information, communication, control, materials, and fundamental science, as well as other fields necessary for the future of society.
Through original research both theoretical and applied, the University aims to be a world leader in education and research.

The University educates researchers and engineers with imagination and ability founded on a broad perspective on society and technology, internationalism, and ethics.

Supporting education and research to strengthen Japan as a scientific and technological leader, the university educates students with the practical ability to contribute to the world.
The University educates researchers and engineers with strong ethical values, communicative ability, and powers of judgment and who are qualified for leadership.
The University pursues association between undergraduate and graduate levels of education, and has designed graduate-level education to increase levels of attainment and diversification.
The University stresses continuing education and is striving to increase the number of international students on its campus and of its students on campuses abroad.

Through the creative engagement of knowledge and skill based on both domestic and international cooperation, the University supports the development of both Japan and international society.

The University promotes increasing exchange among both domestic and international researchers and promotes internationalization.
Based on an international perspective, the university strengthens cooperation with outside organizations and pursues groundbreaking research in the fields of science and technology.
The University strengthens cooperation with both the public and private sectors of the local community.